{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b WearItRight - Architecture, Design, and Reflection\b0\par
\par
This document answers the project questions in a simple and easy-to-understand way based on the current WearItRight implementation and its design documents.\par
\par
\b 1. Architecture and Design\b0\par
\par
\b How does the architecture of WearItRight reflect the requirements of the project?\b0\par
The architecture supports the main project goal: helping users choose outfits based on weather, occasion, and personal preferences. The system separates frontend pages, backend logic, and database storage so that each requirement, such as authentication, profile saving, and outfit recommendations, has a clear place in the project.\par
\par
\b What are the main components of the system and how do they interact with each other?\b0\par
The main components are the frontend, backend, database, and external weather services. The frontend collects user input, the backend processes it, the database stores user and outfit data, and the weather API provides context used to generate suggestions.\par
\par
\b Why was Flask chosen as the main framework for this project?\b0\par
Flask was a good choice because it is lightweight, simple to understand, and flexible for student projects. It made it easy to build pages, APIs, login flows, and database integration without too much complexity.\par
\par
\b How does the current structure support scalability and future expansion?\b0\par
The project already separates routes, models, and logic, which makes future changes easier. The new frontend and backend folder structure also prepares the app for growth by giving developers clear places to add new modules and features.\par
\par
\b What would you change in the architecture if the project were developed into a larger application?\b0\par
For a larger application, I would split the backend into clearer service modules, use PostgreSQL instead of SQLite, and move more logic into dedicated services. I would also consider a separate frontend framework, stronger API contracts, and background jobs for slower tasks.\par
\par
\b 2. Frontend\b0\par
\par
\b What role does the frontend play in the overall system?\b0\par
The frontend is the part users interact with directly. It displays forms, weather details, outfit suggestions, and profile pages, while also sending user input to the backend and showing results clearly.\par
\par
\b How are HTML, CSS, and JavaScript used together in the project?\b0\par
HTML defines the structure of pages, CSS controls the design and layout, and JavaScript handles interactivity such as uploads, weather fetches, manual location selection, and dynamic outfit generation. Together they create the full user experience.\par
\par
\b Why were templates used instead of building the entire frontend as a separate SPA?\b0\par
Templates were simpler and faster for this project because they work directly with Flask. This approach reduced setup complexity and was enough for a web app that mainly needed forms, dynamic sections, and moderate interactivity.\par
\par
\b How does the design improve user experience?\b0\par
The design improves user experience by keeping the flow simple: register, set preferences, upload clothes, and get recommendations. Responsive layouts, clear buttons, weather notes, and personalized suggestions make the app easier and more enjoyable to use.\par
\par
\b What are the limitations of the current frontend approach?\b0\par
The current frontend can become harder to manage as the app grows because much of the logic is in plain JavaScript files. A larger project might benefit from reusable UI components, state management, and a more structured frontend framework.\par
\par
\b 3. Backend\b0\par
\par
\b What responsibilities does the backend handle in this project?\b0\par
The backend handles authentication, session management, saving user preferences, storing outfits, protecting personal data, and providing recommendation-related API responses. It is the main layer that enforces rules and stores important data.\par
\par
\b How are routes and controllers used to manage requests?\b0\par
Routes define which URL triggers which action, and controller functions contain the request-handling logic. For example, login, logout, save outfit, and load profile preferences are all handled through backend routes.\par
\par
\b How does the backend communicate with the database?\b0\par
The backend uses SQLAlchemy models to read and write data. Instead of writing raw SQL most of the time, the app uses Python classes such as User and Outfit to store and retrieve information.\par
\par
\b What are the main security considerations in the backend?\b0\par
Important security areas include password hashing, session protection, authenticated access to personal pages, and restricting one user from seeing another user's data. The project also added logout session clearing and no-cache behavior for sensitive pages.\par
\par
\b How could the backend be improved for better maintainability?\b0\par
The backend could be improved by moving more logic out of route files into dedicated service and controller layers. It would also help to centralize configuration, validation, and error handling more cleanly.\par
\par
\b 4. Database and Data Handling\b0\par
\par
\b What data is stored in the application and why?\b0\par
The app stores user account data, profile preferences, exclusions, and saved outfits. This data is necessary so the app can personalize results and keep each user's information separate and persistent.\par
\par
\b How does the project use SQLite in the current version?\b0\par
SQLite is used as a simple local database for development. It is easy to set up, requires no separate database server, and works well for a smaller project or prototype.\par
\par
\b What are the benefits of using SQLAlchemy in this project?\b0\par
SQLAlchemy makes the code easier to read and maintain because database tables are represented as Python models. It also reduces direct SQL writing and makes future database migration easier.\par
\par
\b How would the database design change if the app had many more users?\b0\par
For many users, the app should move to PostgreSQL or another production-ready database. It would also need better indexing, migrations, stronger normalization, and possibly caching for frequently requested data.\par
\par
\b What challenges did you face when connecting the app to the database?\b0\par
The main challenges were making sure models, sessions, and saved data worked correctly across routes, and keeping user-specific data separated. There were also practical issues such as migrations, schema changes, and matching backend code to the actual database structure.\par
\par
\b 5. MVC and Lab Connection\b0\par
\par
\b How did the MVC demo lab help you understand the structure of this project?\b0\par
The MVC lab gave a simple example of how to separate concerns in a web application. It made it easier to understand how data, logic, and user interface should be organized in WearItRight.\par
\par
\b In what ways does WearItRight reflect the MVC pattern?\b0\par
WearItRight reflects MVC because models store data, views display pages to users, and controllers/routes handle requests and responses. Even though the project is simpler than a large enterprise app, the same pattern is visible.\par
\par
\b What parts of the MVC lab were directly reused in this project?\b0\par
The main reusable ideas were route organization, separation between request handling and data storage, and the importance of testing backend behavior. The project also reused the mindset of keeping logic organized instead of mixing everything together.\par
\par
\b What improvements were made from the simple MVC demo to the full WearItRight application?\b0\par
WearItRight added real user authentication, profile setup, saved outfits, privacy controls, weather-aware logic, and a richer frontend. It moved from a small demo structure to a more complete user-centered application.\par
\par
\b How did the lab help you think about separating models, views, and controllers?\b0\par
The lab showed that each part has a clear responsibility and should not do everything at once. That made it easier to understand why models should store data, views should present information, and controllers should coordinate the process.\par
\par
\b 6. Difficulties and Learning\b0\par
\par
\b What were the biggest challenges faced during development?\b0\par
Some of the biggest challenges were keeping user data private, managing wardrobe persistence correctly, improving weather accuracy, and making recommendation behavior feel practical. Another challenge was keeping the structure understandable as features grew.\par
\par
\b How did you solve the merge conflicts and startup issues?\b0\par
These issues were solved by checking the current state carefully, validating changes in small steps, and testing after each change. Clear separation of responsibilities and repeated syntax and test checks helped reduce breakage.\par
\par
\b What did you learn about teamwork and collaboration while building the project?\b0\par
The project showed that clear communication and shared structure are very important. When multiple people work on the same repo, consistent organization and careful coordination reduce confusion and conflicts.\par
\par
\b What would you do differently if you started the project again?\b0\par
I would define the final architecture earlier, especially the frontend/backend separation and service boundaries. I would also set stronger naming conventions, testing practices, and migration plans from the beginning.\par
\par
\b Which part of the project was most difficult and why?\b0\par
The most difficult part was balancing many features at once: authentication, weather logic, user privacy, and recommendation quality. These features are connected, so a change in one area often affects another.\par
\par
\b 7. Libraries and Technologies\b0\par
\par
\b What libraries were most important for the project and why?\b0\par
The most important libraries were Flask, Flask-SQLAlchemy, Flask-Session, Flask-CORS, and Werkzeug. Together they handled routing, data storage, user sessions, API support, and secure password hashing.\par
\par
\b How did Flask extensions improve the application?\b0\par
Flask extensions made the project easier to build because they add useful features on top of Flask without needing custom solutions. For example, Flask-SQLAlchemy simplified database work and Flask-Session improved login session handling.\par
\par
\b What is the purpose of each major library used?\b0\par
Flask runs the web app, Flask-SQLAlchemy manages the database layer, Flask-Session manages logged-in sessions, Flask-CORS supports cross-origin API access when needed, Werkzeug handles password hashing, and python-dotenv supports environment-based configuration.\par
\par
\b Which tools helped most during development and testing?\b0\par
Git, Docker, pytest, and the project documentation were very helpful. They supported version control, environment consistency, testing, and clearer planning.\par
\par
\b How did the technology choices affect the final result?\b0\par
The chosen technologies made the app fast to develop and easy to understand. At the same time, some choices, like SQLite and plain JavaScript, are better for a prototype than for a large-scale production system.\par
\par
\b 8. Reflection\b0\par
\par
\b What is the most important feature of WearItRight?\b0\par
The most important feature is personalized outfit recommendation based on weather, occasion, and the user's own wardrobe. That is the main value that makes the app useful and different from generic fashion tools.\par
\par
\b How well does the current implementation meet the original project vision?\b0\par
The current implementation matches the vision well in its main idea: helping people make faster, smarter outfit decisions from clothes they already own. Some advanced planned features are still simplified, but the core purpose is clearly present.\par
\par
\b What features would you add next if the project continued?\b0\par
I would add stronger product comparison, more advanced recommendation ranking, cloud-stored wardrobe images, better analytics, and a more scalable backend architecture. I would also improve cross-device syncing and richer explanation features.\par
\par
\b What is your overall evaluation of the project architecture?\b0\par
The architecture is strong for a course project and prototype because it is understandable, functional, and already shows good separation of concerns. It is not yet enterprise-level, but it provides a solid foundation for future improvement.\par
\par
\b How has this project improved your understanding of web application development?\b0\par
This project improved understanding of how frontend, backend, database, sessions, APIs, and requirements all connect in a real application. It also showed the importance of architecture, maintainability, testing, and privacy in practical development.\par
\par
\b End of Document\b0\par
}
